

 
 
 
 
XML Export  
Version 1.0 
 
 
 
Introduction 
 
Generating Feed 
 
Resources 
 
XML Format Description 
 
Root Element <properties>...</properties> 
 
Property Element <properties>...</properties> 
 
Contact Person Element <contact_person> ... </contact_person> 
 
Descriptions Element <descriptions>...</descriptions> 
 
Photo Element <photos>...</photos> 
 
Features Element <features>...</features> 
 
Valid Property Type Codes  
 
Valid Feature Codes  
 
Valid Province Codes  
 
Valid Description Languages 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PropertyList.es 

 
Introduction 
This document explains how to export property listings from PropertyList using an XML feed. The 
feed can be used to update the agency’s website with the latest property listings. 
 
You can also use our REST API to feed property data to the website. 
 
 
Generating the Feed 
Any PropertyList user with Full Access can create and view previously generated feeds. Follow 
these steps to create a feed: 
 
1. Log in to PropertyList with a Full Access account. 
2. Go to the settings page by clicking the gear icon in the bottom-left corner. 
3. Click on the “Property Export” tab. 
4. If you see a feed starting with “Format: PropertyList,” click the “Show Link” button to view 
the feed URL. 
5. If no suitable feed is listed, click the “+ New Export Feed” link to create one. The new feed 
will appear in the list. 
6. The feed includes public details of all the listings. Once created, the feed updates 
automatically every 24 hours. The feed URL will always give you the most recent version 
of the file. 
 
Resources 
 
Sample XML export file with description of each node:  
https://propertylist.es/files/property_list_v1.xml  
 
XML Format Description  
 
The following is a description of the XML file structure. Please make sure to check the sample XML 
file, listed in the Resources section, for reference. 
 
Root Element <properties>...</properties> 
                                                                                                 
Root Element Attribute  Mandatory Value 
properties  Yes 1 or more property elements as described further.   
 type Yes Must be: PropertyList.es 
version  Yes Must be: 3.0 
 created_at Yes Date and time the feed has been created in UTC format  
(e.g. 2014-01-27T 16:25:05Z). 
 
 
 
PropertyList.es 

 
Property Element <properties>...</properties> 
 
Child Element Attribute Mandatory Value 
 created_at Yes Date and time the property has been added to the system. 
 last_updated_at Yes Date and time the property has been updated for the last 
time. Valid value: UTC date time. 
(e.g. 2014-01-27T16:25:05Z) 
 direct No Present only on another agency listings (if included in the 
feed) with the value of false. Valid values: true, false 
reference  Yes Property reference. Valid value: text 
is_sale 
 
 No Is the property listed for sale? Valid values: true, false 
is_short_term  No Is the property available for holiday rent? Valid values: true, 
false 
is_long_term  No Is the property available for long term rent? Valid values: 
true, false 
property_type  Yes The code of the property type. Valid values: list of property 
type codes 
bedrooms  No Number of bedrooms Valid value: integer 
bathrooms  No Number of bathrooms Valid value: integer 
parking_spaces  No Number of parking spaces Valid value: integer 
province  Yes The code of province of Spain where the property is located. 
Valid values: list of province codes 
city  Yes The name of the city where the property is located. Valid 
value: text up to 100 characters, e.g. Marbella, Fuengirola, 
Madrid 
suburb  No The name of the suburb within the city where the property is 
located. Valid value: text up to 100 characters, e.g. Golden 
Mile, Elviria, Atocha 
urbanization  No The name of the urbanization where the property is located. 
Valid value: text up to 100 characters 
latitude  No Latitude of the location of the property, or latitude of the 
center of the suburb the property is located in. Valid value: 
decimal number 
longitude  No Longitude of the location of the property, or longitude of the 
center of the suburb the property is located in Valid value: 
decimal number. 
build_size  No Build size in square meters. Valid value: integer 
plot_size  No Plot size in square meters. Valid value: integer 
terrace_size  No Terrace size in square meters. Valid value: integer 
floor_number  No Floor number, 0 being the ground floor. Valid value: integer 
PropertyList.es 

 
exclusive_listing  No Does the agency have an exclusive listing agreement in 
force signed with the owner? The information will be used to 
dispute potential duplicate listings issues. Valid values: true, 
false 
sale_price  No List price of the property for sale in Euros. Valid value: 
integer 
 hide No Should the price be hidden on the website. Valid values: 
true, false 
furnished  No Is the property offered for rent furnished? Valid values: true, 
false 
monthly_price  No Long term rental price per month in Euros. Valid value: 
integer 
rental_deposit  No Long term rental deposit to be paid by the tenant in Euros. 
Valid value: integer 
rental_commissio
n 
 No Long term rental commission to be paid by the tenant in 
Euros. Valid value: integer 
property_tax  No Property tax (IBI) per year in Euros. Valid value: integer 
garbage_tax  No Garbage tax (Basura) per year in Euros. Valid value: integer 
community_fees  No Community fees per month in Euros. Valid value: integer 
available_from  No The date the long term rental property is available from. Valid 
value: date in the following form YYYY-MM-DD 
weekly_price_fro
m 
 No Low season price per week in Euros. Valid value: integer 
weekly_price_to  No High season price per week in Euros. Valid value: integer 
sleeps  No Number of people the holiday rental is suited for. Valid value: 
integer 
energy_rating  No Energy rating of the property. Valid values: A, B, C, D, E, F, 
G 
orientation  No Property orientation. Valid values: east, north, north-east, 
north-west, south, south-east, south-west, west 
freehold  No Is the property available as freehold? Applies only to 
commercial properties. Valid values: true, false 
leasehold  No Is the property available as leasehold? Applies only to 
commercial properties. Valid values: true, false 
contact_person  No The agency staff member who should be assigned to the 
property. Valid value: a contact_person element as described 
further. 
descriptions  Yes Property descriptions. Valid value: a descriptions element as 
described further. 
features  No Property features. Valid value: a features element as 
described further 
photos  Yes Property photos. Valid value: a photos element as described 
further 
PropertyList.es 

 
Contact Person Element <contact_person> ... </contact_person> 
 
The contact person set for the property in PropertyList.  
Child Element Mandatory Value 
name No First name. Valid value: text, 1 to 100 
characters 
surname No Last name. Valid value: text, 1 to 100 
characters. 
 
 
Descriptions Element <descriptions>...</descriptions> 
 
The descriptions element contains one or more description elements with the following child nodes:  
 
Child Element Attribute Mandatory Value 
 language Yes The language code of the description. Valid values: list of language 
codes 
text  No The text of the description. Valid value: text, can be enclosed in 
CDATA 
 
 
Photo Element <photos>...</photos> 
 
The photos element contains between 5 and 30 photo elements:  
 
Child Element Mandatory Value 
photo Yes 5 - 30 The URL of the photo. Valid value: URL 
 
 
Features Element <features>...</features> 
 
The features element can contain up to 100 feature elements:  
 
Child Element Mandatory Value 
feature No One of the feature codes listed below. Valid values: 24-hour-security or 
frontline-beach etc. 
 
 
Valid Property Type Codes  
 
Code Residential / Commercial 
apartment Residential 
country-house Residential 
PropertyList.es 

 
penthouse Residential 
plot Residential 
townhouse Residential 
villa Residential 
office Commercial 
business Commercial 
cafe Commercial 
bar Commercial 
restaurant Commercial 
retail Commercial 
shop Commercial 
hotel Commercial 
leisure Commercial 
industrial Commercial 
warehouse Commercial 
commercial-land Commercial 
development Commercial 
 
 
Valid Feature Codes  
 
alarm-system Alarm System 
all-electric-home Air Conditioning  
bank-repossession Alarm System 
bar Beachside. Only applicable to areas where beachside 
can be distinguished from the rest of the area, i.e. 
mountain side. Not to be confused with the Frontline 
Beach feature.  
 
barbeque-area Close to Park 
basement Close to Schools 
beach-front Double Glazing 
central-heating Fireplace frontline-beach Frontline Beach 
 close-to-beach Frontline Golf  
close-to-golf Gated Complex 
PropertyList.es 

 
close-to-marina Close to the marina 
close-to-restaurants Close to restaurants 
close-to-schools Close to schools 
close-to-shops Close to shops 
close-to-ski-resort Close to ski resort 
close-to-town-centre Close to town centre 
cold-hot-ac-units Hot & cold a/c wall units 
commercial-district In the commercial district 
countryside In the countryside 
covered-terrace Covered terrace 
disabled-access Disabled access 
distressed-property Distressed property 
double-glazing Double glazing 
drinkable-water Drinkable water 
ducted-central-ac Ducted central air conditioning 
east East-facing 
electric-blinds Electric blinds 
ensuite-bathroom Ensuite bathroom 
entry-phone-system Entry phone system 
excellent-condition Property is in excellent condition 
fair-condition Property is in fair condition 
fibre-internet Fibre internet 
fireplace Fireplace 
fitted-wardrobes Fitted wardrobes 
fully-equipped-kitchen Fully equipped kitchen 
fully-furnished Fully furnished 
games-room Games room 
garage Garage 
garden-communal Communal garden 
garden-landscaped Landscaped garden 
garden-private Private garden 
gas Gas 
PropertyList.es 

 
gated-complex Gated complex 
golf-front Golf-front 
good-condition Property is in good condition 
guest-apartment Guest apartment 
guest-house Guest house 
gym Gym 
heated-bathroom-floors Heated bathroom floors 
historic-property Historic property 
home-automation Home automation 
investment-opportunity Investment opportunity 
jacuzzi Jacuzzi 
kitchen-not-equipped Kitchen not equipped 
lift Lift 
luxury-property Luxury property 
marble-flooring Marble flooring 
modern Modern 
mountain Mountain views 
near-public-transport Near public transport 
new-development New development 
newly-built Newly built 
north North-facing 
north-east North-east-facing 
north-west North-west-facing 
off-plan-project Off-plan project 
on-site-restaurant On-site restaurant 
open-plan-kitchen-lounge Open-plan kitchen/lounge 
paddle-court Paddle court 
parking-communal Communal parking 
parking-covered Covered parking 
parking-multiple Multiple parking spaces 
parking-private-space Private parking space 
parking-underground Underground parking 
PropertyList.es 

 
partially-equipped-kitchen Partially equipped kitchen 
partially-furnished Partially furnished 
pool-childrens Children's pool 
pool-communal Communal pool 
pool-heated Heated pool 
pool-indoor Indoor pool 
pool-private Private pool 
pool-room-for Pool room for 
port-marina Located in within the Port or Marina 
pre-installed-ac Pre-installed A/C 
private-terrace Private terrace 
private-well Private water well on land 
recently-refurbished Recently refurbished 
recently-renovated Recently renovated 
reception-24-hour 24-hour reception 
requires-renovation Requires renovation 
satellite-tv Satellite TV 
sauna Sauna 
security-24-hour 24-hour security 
smart-home Smart home 
solar-power Solar power electric 
solar-water-heating Solar water heating 
solarium Solarium 
south South-facing 
south-east South-east-facing 
south-west South-west-facing 
stables Stables 
staff-accommodation Staff accommodation 
storage-room Storage room 
style-andalucian Andalusian style property 
style-rustic Rustic style property 
suburban-area Suburban area 
PropertyList.es 

 
surrounded-by-nature Surrounded by nature 
tennis-court Tennis court 
town-centre Town centre 
underfloor-heating Underfloor heating 
unfurnished Unfurnished 
urban-living Urban living 
utility-room Utility room 
views-beach Beach views 
views-city City views 
views-countryside Countryside views 
views-forest Forest views 
views-garden Garden views 
views-golf Golf views 
views-lake Lake views 
views-marina Marina views 
views-mountain Mountain views 
views-panoramic Panoramic views 
views-pool Pool views 
views-sea Sea views 
views-ski-resort Ski resort views 
village Village 
walking-amenities Walking distance to amenities 
walking-beach Walking distance to beach 
west West-facing 
wifi WiFi 
with-planning-permission With planning permission 
wooden-flooring Wooden flooring 
 
 
Valid Province Codes  
 
Code Province Name 
C A Coruña 
PropertyList.es 

 
VI Álava 
AB Albacete 
A Alicante 
AL Almería 
O Asturias 
AV Ávila 
BA Badajoz 
PM Balears 
B Barcelona 
BU Burgos 
CC Cáceres 
CA Cádiz 
S Cantabria 
CS Castellón 
EA Ceuta, Melilla 
CR Ciudad Real 
CO Córdoba 
CU Cuenca 
GI Girona 
GR Granada 
GU Guadalajara 
SS Guipúzcoa 
H Huelva 
HU  Huesca 
J Jaén 
LO La Rioja 
GC Las Palmas 
LE León 
L Lleida 
LU Lugo 
M Madrid 
MA Málaga 
PropertyList.es 

 
MU Murcia 
NA Navarra 
OP Ourense 
P Palencia 
PO Pontevedra 
SA Salamanca 
TF Santa Cruz de Tenerife 
SG Segovia 
SE Sevilla 
SO Soria 
T Tarragona 
TE Teruel 
TO Toledo 
V Valencia 
VA Valladolid 
BI Vizcaya 
ZA Zamora 
Z Zaragoza 
 
 
Valid Description Languages 
 
Code Language Name 
ar Arabic 
da Danish 
nl Dutch 
en English 
et Estonian 
fi Finnish 
fr French 
de German 
hu Hungarian 
it Italian 
PropertyList.es 

 
lt Lithuanian 
no Norwegian 
pl Polish 
pt Portuguese 
ru Russian 
es SPanish 
sv Swedish 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Version 1.0 
PropertyList.es 